I have developed key skills centred around team working, problem solving and communication both from my time at university and my work placements. I volunteered at the British Heart Foundation in Manchester Piccadilly for six months; I worked with a wide range of people and developed strong communication skills when helping customers with their queries. Prior to this, I completed an internship at DFDS Seaways - this was a perfect opportunity to develop my ability to explain technical concepts to other employees in a professional environment. I believe this is a vital skill for an AV engineer. 

My general personality is friendly and outgoing, and I often strike up conversations with anyone I meet. I'm not afraid to ask clarifying questions if I'm unsure about something, as this helps me develop my knowledge and adapt to a work environment faster. This was especially prevalent during university, where my friend felt insecure about going up to the lecturer to ask a question, but I was more than happy to ask for clarification on a subject.

I studied Music & Sound Design at Manchester Metropolitan University; my intention was to develop my IT skills in technical production with my degree focusing on AV transmission, signal paths/preservation and recording practices. I aim to utilise these skills in a technical role in a production environment for TV/radio.

I have experience with AV engineering from having recently completed an internship at dock10 with the MCR/Broadcast engineers. During this role, I became familiar with Phabrix testing devices as we toured the site to prepare it for a Children in Need event. We ensured that the exterior IO boxes on the courtyard were in full working order to eliminate any potential issues on the day. The majority of my time here was spent troubleshooting broadcasting equipment and resolving issues within professional production studio spaces.

I have also been studying Audinate's Dante training courses, having recently achieved a Level 1 Dante Certification and enrolling in the Level 2 course. This course allowed me to develop a greater understanding of AV over IP signal flow and routing, alongside networking aspects such as MAC addresses, subnets and how they interact within an AV over IP system.

Before university, I studied Computer Science at college. On my Digital Production, Design and Development T-Level course, we focused on networking fundamentals, protocols alongside web development and programming. I applied this knowledge outside of education by self-hosting my own web services, which I have been doing for the past 5 years. These include media servers for remote access of my DVD//CD/vinyl collection, alongside game and web servers. This has given me extensive experience with Linux servers, Docker containers and configurations. Whilst Linux has been my go-to choice when it comes to home-use for the past 5 years, I have used OSX and Windows extensively in a production environment and have become very familiar with them, as I often find myself troubleshooting them for friends and family.
