I would excel in the Technical Assistant role because I have a high attention to detail, I am able to focus heavily on what I'm doing and I love completing tasks to the best of my ability, I find it really satisfying and rewarding. I often find myself meticulously working on a task to complete it to a high quality and I pride myself with that.


The key skills that I have developed are centered around team working, problem solving and communication. During my time at university, I volunteered at the British Heart Foundation in Manchester Piccadilly; from this experience I worked with a wide range of people and further developed my communication skills with general customers. 

I am currently a 'Technical Operator' intern at Wavecast in Holmes Chapel, focusing on remote conference technical operations alongside larger productions in a news/interview style format. Alongside this I also a freelance technical operator with the Manchester Basketball broadcasting team, here I focus on rigging lighting, audio and performing as a camera operator during the performances.

Last October, I completed an internship at dock10 with the MCR/Broadcast engineers. During this role, I became familiar with Phabrix testing devices as we toured the site to prepare it for a Children in Need event. We ensured that the exterior IO boxes on the courtyard were in full working order to eliminate any potential issues on the day. The majority of my time here was spent troubleshooting broadcasting equipment and resolving issues within production studio spaces.

I have also been studying Audinate's Dante training courses, having recently achieved a Level 1 Dante Certification and I am currently working my way through their Level 2 course.

Alongside these experiences, I have a keen interest in the history of broadcast technology, as well as future advancements that could impact the field. This has given me a deeper perspective on current systems and how they might interact with legacy equipment.


My general personality is friendly and outgoing - I often strike up conversations with anyone I meet. I'm not afraid to ask clarifying questions if I'm unsure about something, as this helps me develop my knowledge to adapt to a work environment faster. This was especially prevalent during university, where my friend felt insecure about going up to the lecturer to ask a question, but I was more than happy to ask for clarification on a subject.


For the past five years, I have self-hosted my own web services, and managed and security hardened my home server. This has given me experience with Linux servers, Docker containers and configurations. 
Whilst I use Linux as my go-to choice when it comes to home-use, I have used OSX and Windows extensively in a production environment and have become very familiar with them.







